Initialize the new section for Java GUI developmment (#5111)
microsoft/vscode-docs: docs/java/java-gui.md

# Working with GUI application in Visual Studio Code

You can develop Java GUI applications in Visual Studio Code easily. To achieve that, you need to install the [Extension Pack for Java](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vscjava.vscode-java-pack), which includes all the required extensions to develop Java GUI application.

> If you run into any issues when using the features below, you can contact us by entering an [issue](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-java-pack/issues).

Reviewer: can we also provide some guidance for unmanaged projects? e.g. what are the steps they will need to take

## Develop JavaFX Application

> Now you can simply create a new JavaFX application will very few steps in Visual Studio Code. Open the command palette **Command Palette**  (`kb(workbench.action.showCommands)`) and then select the command: **Java: Create Java Project**. You will find the option **JavaFX** in the list, which will help you scaffold a new JavaFX project via Maven archetype.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can simply create a new JavaFX application with just a few steps in Visual Studio Code. Open the command palette **Command Palette**  (`kb(workbench.action.showCommands)`) and then select the command: **Java: Create Java Project**. You will find the option **JavaFX** in the list, which will help you scaffold a new JavaFX project via Maven archetype.
```

Reviewer: also suggest to break this content down into several steps:
Step 1: Install extension pack 
Step 2: xx
Step 3: yy

![create JavaFX project](images/java-gui/create-javafx.png)

To run the JavaFX application, you can open the `Maven` explorer, expand `hellofx` > `Plugins` > `javafx` and run the Maven goal: `javafx:run`.

<video autoplay loop muted playsinline controls>
  <source src="/docs/java/java-gui/run-javafx.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

## Develop AWT Application

By default, the types from AWT are hidden. You may notice that the code completion is not working when you are developing an AWT application. To enable that, you can open the command palette **Command Palette**  (`kb(workbench.action.showCommands)`) and then select the command: **Java: Help Center**. Go to the **Student** section and click `Enable AWT Development`.

> Note: This action will update a setting in workspace level, so please make sure a workspace in opened in your Visual Studio Code.

## Develop Swing Application

> Swing application development is supported by default. You can directly write your Swing application code without any setup steps.

Reviewer: can we provide link to some sample projects for Swing/awt (can be on our github repos?)

Author: What about these two links:

AWT: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/awt/index.html
Swing: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/uiswing/examples/components/index.html

Reviewer: let's try to provide a sample project if possible (preferably can be directly opened in VS Code)

## Develop JavaFX Application

### Create a new JavaFX project

Now you can simply create a new JavaFX application with just a few steps in Visual Studio Code:

- Step 1: Install the [Extension Pack for Java](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vscjava.vscode-java-pack).
- Step 2: In Visual Studio Code, open the command palette **Command Palette**  (`kb(workbench.action.showCommands)`) and then select the command: **Java: Create Java Project**.
- Step 3: Select the option **JavaFX** in the list, follow the wizard, which will help you scaffold a new JavaFX project via Maven Archetype.

![create JavaFX project](images/java-gui/create-javafx.png)

### Run the JavaFX application

> Note: The following guidance only works for projects managed by Maven.

To run the JavaFX application, you can open the `Maven` explorer, expand `hellofx` > `Plugins` > `javafx` and run the Maven goal: `javafx:run`.

<video autoplay loop muted playsinline controls>
  <source src="/docs/java/java-gui/run-javafx.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

### More JavaFX examples

> There are more JavaFX project examples, which cover Gradle and unmanaged folder projects in Visual Studio Code as well. You can find them [here](https://github.com/openjfx/samples/tree/master/IDE/VSCode). Each sample has documentation about how to run it as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More JavaFX project examples can be found at [here](https://github.com/openjfx/samples/tree/master/IDE/VSCode), which covers different project structures (such as Gradle and unmanaged projects). There is documentation on each sample to describe how to run the program.
```

By default, the types from AWT are hidden. You may notice that the code completion is not working when you are developing an AWT application. To enable that, you can open the command palette **Command Palette**  (`kb(workbench.action.showCommands)`) and then select the command: **Java: Help Center**. Go to the **Student** section and click `Enable AWT Development`.

> Note: This action will update a setting in workspace level, so please make sure a workspace in opened in your Visual Studio Code.

You can use the sample code below to run a simple Java AWT application in Visual Studio Code.

```java
import java.awt.*;
import java.awt.event.*;

public class AwtExample extends Frame {
  public AwtExample() {
    Button btn = new Button("Button");
    btn.setBounds(50, 50, 50, 50);
    add(btn);
    setSize(150, 150);
    setTitle("This is my First AWT example");
    setLayout(new FlowLayout());
    setVisible(true);
    addWindowListener(new WindowAdapter() {
        public void windowClosing(WindowEvent we) {
            dispose();
        }
    });
  }

  public static void main(String args[]){
    new AwtExample();
  }
}
```

## Develop Swing Application

> Swing application development is supported by default. You can directly write your Swing application code without any setup steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Swing application development is supported by default. You can directly write your Swing application code without any setup.
```
